Final steps here.
So let's say that we are done
with our Go project.
Our Go project is ready.
What are the final steps?
Well, compiling the project,
we haven't done that, okay?
So so far,
we haven't compiled the project.
So to compile the project, it's go
build ., and it will build the project.
You can also specify an output folder,
because by default,
it will just generate the executable
in your current folder.
And also you can set environmental
variables to change the OS and
the architecture.
Because by default, it's going to use
your OS and your architecture for
the compilation.
But if you're on a Mac,
you can also compile for Windows.
So if I'm going to do that,
Let's do it, if I can, there we are.
So go build .,
I'm going to build the current project.
Great feedback, nothing.
But I'm not sure if you realize
there is a new file in town,
museum, no extension, no nothing.
What's that?
An executable, if you're on Windows,
you will see museum.exe.
On Linux or Mac, it's just the file.
So if you wanna run it, you use ./ and
the name of the executable, okay?
And now it's running.
Now my app is running, okay?
So that's how you build your app.
It's very simple.
What about the installation?
It says here, go install.
What's install?
Go has a folder in your
computer that is in the path.
So if you're doing a CLI,
this is only for CLIs.
So if you want now your app to be
available in the terminal everywhere,
you install it.
And then you can run museum from anywhere,
okay?
What about packaging?
Because that's the file there.
I mean, if you're on a Mac, you know that
to install an app, you typically download
something, and then you need to
put that into application folder.
So do I need to just take that
file as it is and put it there?
No, that's packaging, and
Go ends with a binary.
That's all, the binary.
It's your work to add a package for
your operating system in case you need to.
Because maybe you're going to deploy this
in the cloud, and each provider will
tell you the instructions on where
to put the binary and how to do it.
So you don't need to create the package.
So, for example, the package is useful for
embedding assets,
because here, we have only the executable.
But if we change the executable,
our public folder will not
go with the executable.
So when we are building,
we are just compiling the Go code.
Our public folder is not going
to be in that executable file.
So we are not embedding any assets.
Does it make sense?
Images, logo, PDF, whatever you need or
you are pointing in your code is
completely separate from the binary.
So for that, you need to create
the package and add your embeddings.
You can create the installer for Windows.
There are a lot of tools out
there that will let you do that.
On the Mac, you need to learn
how to create a DMG package.
They can be actually just a package,
or you can also create an installer.
And something similar or
different kind of packages for
Linux based on the distribution,
but the responsibility ends there.